= Install Trac =
[[PageOutline]]

Trac is a project management and issue tracking system that is designed
to integrate well with Subversion.  It also provides an integrated wiki.

Trac depends on various packages.  Some of them are downloaded and
installed automatically by the Trac installer, but setuptools and
pysqlite, the Python bindings for SQLite, must be installed separately.
(Trac also depends on SQLite, but we installed that earlier since it is
required for Subversion.)  (TBD: It's not a good idea to try to share
infrastructure packages (like SQLite) between applications like Trac
and Subversion.  Those projects are not coordinated or synchronized.
Version conflicts in the infrastructure packages will certainly arise.
Best to install them to be as independent and self-contained as possible.)

{{{
    export SWENV_PROGS=$HOME/swenv_progs
    export MYSITEPKGS=$SWENV_PROGS/lib/python2.4/site-packages
    mkdir -p $MYSITEPKGS
    export PYTHONPATH="${MYSITEPKGS}:${PYTHONPATH}"
    export TMP_BLD_DIR=$HOME/tmpblddir
    rm -rf $TMP_BLD_DIR
    mkdir $TMP_BLD_DIR
    cd $TMP_BLD_DIR
    cp $DOWNLOADS/setuptools-0.6c11-py2.4.egg .
    sh setuptools-0.6c11-py2.4.egg --prefix=$SWENV_PROGS
    cd
    mv $TMP_BLD_DIR $TMP_BLD_DIR.setuptools
}}}

Note that $PYTHONPATH must include $MYSITEPKGS whenever setuptools
is used.  Add the following environment variable definitions to
~swenv/.bashrc to provide access to both the Trac and Subversion python
libraries:
{{{
    export PYTHONPATH="$SWENV_PROGS/lib/python2.4/site-packages" export
    PYTHONPATH="${PYTHONPATH}:$SWENV_PROGS/lib/svn-python"
}}}

Build pysqlite:

{{{
    export TMP_BLD_DIR=$HOME/tmpblddir
    rm -rf $TMP_BLD_DIR
    mkdir $TMP_BLD_DIR
    cd $TMP_BLD_DIR
    tar zxf $DOWNLOADS/pysqlite-2.6.0.tar.gz
    cd pysqlite-2.6.0
}}}

Edit the file $TMP_BLD_DIR/pysqlite-2.6.0/setup.cfg.  Set the
include_dirs
and library_dirs definitions (which are commented out initially) to be
as follows:
{{{
    include_dirs=/home/swenv/swenv_progs/include
    library_dirs=/home/swenv/swenv_progs/lib
}}}

Those definitions will allow pysqlite to find the previously installed
SQLite files.

{{{
cd $TMP_BLD_DIR/pysqlite-2.6.0
python setup.py build >& build.out
export MYSITEPKGS=$SWENV_PROGS/lib/python2.4/site-packages
export PYTHONPATH="${MYSITEPKGS}:${PYTHONPATH}"
export LIBDIR=$TMP_BLD_DIR/pysqlite-2.6.0/build/lib.linux-i686-2.4/pysqlite2
cp -a $LIBDIR $MYSITEPKGS
cd
mv $TMP_BLD_DIR $TMP_BLD_DIR.pysqlite
}}}

The following definitions should be in ~swenv/.bashrc:
{{{
export SWENV_PROGS=/home/swenv/swenv_progs
export PATH="$SWENV_PROGS/bin:${PATH}"
export DOWNLOADS=/home/swenv/swenv_downloads
export PYTHONPATH="$SWENV_PROGS/lib/python2.4/site-packages"
export PYTHONPATH="${PYTHONPATH}:$SWENV_PROGS/lib/svn-python"
}}}

Test the pysqlite installation by starting a Python interpreter session
and giving it the indicated commands:
{{{
    python
        >>> from pysqlite2 import test
        >>> test.test()
}}}
You should see a series of periods appear, then a
message like: "Ran 210 tests in 0.405s".  If no errors are reported the
installation was successful.

Now install Trac:
{{{
$SWENV_PROGS/bin/easy_install --prefix=$SWENV_PROGS Trac==0.12
}}}
The easy_install utility will download other dependencies and install
them and Trac into $SWENV_PROGS

Next, set up the Trac environment for the project:


{{{
export TRACPROJ=$SWENV_PROGS/tracprojects/awips2trac
mkdir -p $TRACPROJ
$SWENV_PROGS/bin/trac-admin $TRACPROJ initenv
}}}

Trac-admin will emit various prompts.  Respond as indicated:
{{{
Project Name [My Project]> AWIPS2_DEV
Database connection string [sqlite:db/trac.db]> (Return to accept default)
}}}

You should now see several screens of output ending with a
message stating that the environment for AWIPS2_DEV has been
successfully created.

There are various ways to deploy trac.  Please see the documentation for
the alternatives.  For expediency, we will deploy it as a CGI application
run by httpd.

{{{
export TRACPROJ=$SWENV_PROGS/tracprojects/awips2trac
mkdir -p $SWENV_PROGS/www/trac
trac-admin $TRACPROJ deploy $SWENV_PROGS/www/trac
cp $SWENV_PROGS/www/trac/cgi-bin/trac.cgi $SWENV_PROGS/cgi-bin/trac.cgi
}}}

Add the following lines to the end of $SWENV_PROGS/conf/httpd.conf:

{{{
ScriptAlias /trac "/home/swenv/swenv_progs/cgi-bin/trac.cgi"
<Location "/trac">
  SetEnv PYTHONPATH /home/swenv/swenv_progs/lib/python2.4/site-packages:/home/  swenv/swenv_progs/lib/svn-python
</Location>
<Location "/trac/login">
  AuthType Basic
  AuthName "Trac"
  AuthUserFile /home/swenv/swenv_progs/conf/svn-auth-file
  Require valid-user
</Location>
}}}


Set up another Trac project to hold the NCEP wiki.  Eventually we expect
that the NCEP wiki will be accessible from NOAA's Silver Spring campus
but at present it is not.  The wiki should be regarded as read-only.
We will get periodic dumps of the NCEP wiki.  When they are installed
all changes to the wiki will be lost.

{{{
# ----- Set up the Trac project for the NCEP wiki.
export NCEPTRAC=$SWENV_PROGS/tracprojects/nceptrac
mkdir -p $NCEPTRAC
$SWENV_PROGS/bin/trac-admin $NCEPTRAC initenv

# ----- Load the wiki pages provided by NCEP.
export TD=$HOME/temp_dump_dir
rm -rf $TD
mkdir $TD
cd $TD
tar zxf $DOWNLOADS/sib-dev-wiki-dump.tar.gz
export DUMP_PATH=$TD/wiki-dump
$SWENV_PROGS/bin/trac-admin $NCEPTRAC wiki load $DUMP_PATH

# ----- Deploy the NCEP Trac project as a CGI application.
export WWWNCEP=$SWENV_PROGS/www/ncep_trac
mkdir -p $WWWNCEP
trac-admin $NCEPTRAC deploy $WWWNCEP
cp $WWWNCEP/cgi-bin/trac.cgi $SWENV_PROGS/cgi-bin/ncep_trac.cgi
}}}

Edit $SWENV_PROGS/conf/httpd.conf.  Add the following lines to
the end of the file.

{{{
ScriptAlias /ncep_trac "/home/swenv/swenv_progs/cgi-bin/ncep_trac.cgi"
<Location "/ncep_trac">
  SetEnv PYTHONPATH /home/swenv/swenv_progs/lib/python2.4/site-packages:/home/  swenv/swenv_progs/lib/svn-python
</Location>
<Location "/ncep_trac/login">
  AuthType Basic
  AuthName "Trac"
  AuthUserFile /home/swenv/swenv_progs/conf/svn-auth-file
  Require valid-user
</Location>
}}}

Restart httpd:
{{{
    apachectl restart
}}}

Make user homer a Trac administrator by doing the following:

{{{
[swenv@svnhost ~]$ trac-admin $SWENV_PROGS/tracprojects/awips2trac
Trac [...]> permission add homer TRAC_ADMIN
Trac [...]> permission list homer
Trac [...]> quit
}}}

Now that Homer is an administrator, have him turn on logging:
 * Load URL http://svnhost:8080/trac in a browser
 * Log in as user homer.  A new tab labeled Admin will appear.
 * Click the Admin tab.
 * Click Logging
 * Select File from the Type pulldown.
 * Select Info from the Log level pulldown.
 * Click Apply changes.

Also have Homer attach the repository to Trac:
 * Click "Repositories"
 * In the "Add Repository" block enter a descriptive name in the Name keyin.    Say awips2
 * In the Directory keyin, enter the absolute path to the repository: [[BR]] /  home/swenv/repositories/awips2_repo

A new tab -- Browse Source -- appears.
Messages appear in the browser window:

{{{
The repository "awips2 dev" has been added.
You should now run trac-admin $ENV repository resync awips2
to synchronize Trac with the repository.
You should also set up a post-commit hook on the repository to
call trac-admin $ENV changeset added "awips2 dev" $REV for each
committed changeset.
}}}

The ENV environment variable stands for the directory name of the
Trac project environment:
{{{
    $SWENV_PROGS/tracprojects/awips2trac
}}}
so the required trac-admin command is:
{{{
trac-admin $SWENV_PROGS/tracprojects/awips2trac repository resync awips2
}}}

Reload trac in the browser.  You should now see a new tab
titled "Browse Source."

Set up Trac backups.  To do that you will install a script
to make the backup and a new line in the crontab to run the
backup script.  To install the backup script:
{{{
    cd $SWENV_PROGS/local/bin
    tar zxf $SWENV_DOWNLOADS/swenv_utils.tgz backupTrac.py
}}}

To add the new line to the cron make a temporary copy of the
crontab file:
{{{
    cd
    crontab -l > crontab.tmp
}}}
Edit crontab.tmp to add the following line:
{{{
5 02,10,15,19 * * *  $SWENV_PROGS/local/bin/backupTrac.py 40 > $SWENV_PROGS/    logs/backupTrac.log 2>&1
}}}

Now install the new crontab file and delete the temporary copy:
{{{
    crontab  crontab.tmp
    rm crontab.tmp
}}}


AWIPS II Software Developers' Handbook (AiiHb)
