= AWIPS II Software Developers' Handbook (AiiHb) =
[[PageOutline]]

== Introduction ==

When the human resources become available (and if funding then
permits), we hope that the original architects and developers of AWIPS
II will write a technical handbook to  serve as a resource for those
maintaining AWIPS II and those developing new capabilities for it.

There is, however, immediate need for such a handbook.  And much
information within its scope is currently being discovered by those who
are now working on porting local applications, testing interim releases,
and porting to AWIPS II core components of legacy AWIPS that are not
within the scope of the Contractor's current task.

This document (AiiHb and its subordinate wiki pages) has two major goals:
 1.  To serve as a well-organized repository for information we now have.
 1.  To serve as a guide and example to the Contractor of the kind of           documentation we need and expect.

We encourage all AWIPS stakeholders to contribute toward both of those
goals.  If you ''have'' technical information that could support Goal 1,
please add it to the Handbook section of the wiki in the appropriate
place.  If you ''need'' specific technical information and do not see
a placeholder for it in this document, please add that placeholder;
empty section headings are valuable contributions toward Goal 2.

If you prefer not to edit the wiki yourself, or if you feel that
the relevant information is already available elsewhere, please send
an email to the Handbook maintainer (stowell.davison@noaa.gov) or the
AWIPS Software Development Team lead (james.calkins@noaa.gov).  We will
see to it that the material, or a link to it, gets into the handbook.

If you create new pages, please observe the !CamelCase convention of
starting the name of the new page with the name of the page that is at
the next level up.  So all page names related to the Handbook will have
"!AiiHb" as their first five characters.

== Candidate Topics ==

Candidate topics for inclusion in the Handbook: AiiHbTopicList.
Please edit AiiHbTopicList or send email to stowell.davison@noaa.gov to
suggest addition or deletion of topics.


== Table of Contents ==

 I.  Introduction (AiiHb)
 I.  Software Development Environment (AiiHbDevEnv)
  A.  Using the SDE (AiiHbDevEnvUse)
   1.  Working with Subversion (AiiHbDevEnvUseSu)
   1.  How To Create a New Development Branch (AiiHbDevEnvUseDb)
   1.  How To Update a Branch from the Trunk (AiiHbDevEnvUseUb)
   1.  How To Deliver Code to the Trunk (AiiHbDevEnvUseDc)
  A.  Administering the SDE
   1.  How to Merge a New Raytheon Delivery into the Repository                 (AiiHbDevEnvAdminRd)
  A.  Installing the SDE (AiiHbDevEnvInst)
   1.  Hardware, Software, Networking (AiiHbDevEnvInstHsw)
   1.  Preliminary System Administration Tasks (AiiHbDevEnvInstSysadFirst)
   1.  Install Apache httpd (AiiHbDevEnvInstApache)
   1.  Install Subversion (AiiHbDevEnvInstSvn)
   1.  Create Subversion Repository and Load AWIPS II Code (AiiHbDevEnvInstRepo)
   1.  Set Up Repository Backups (AiiHbDevEnvInstRepoBkp)
   1.  Connect to Repository from Eclipse and Check Code Out                    (AiiHbDevEnvInstEcl)
   1.  Install Hudson (AiiHbDevEnvInstHud)
   1.  Set Up Subversion Access Control (AiiHbDevEnvInstSvnac)
   1.  Install Trac (AiiHbDevEnvInstTrac)
   1.  Final System Administration Tasks (AiiHbDevEnvInstSysadLast)
 I.  Tools for AWIPS Development (AiiHbTools)
  A.  Eclipse (AiiHbToolsEclipse)
  B.  Ant (AiiHbToolsAnt)
  C.  Testing (AiiHbToolsTest)
 I.  Architecture Guide (AiiHbArch)
 I.  Development Guide
 I.  References and Resources (AiiHbRes)
