= Using the Software Development Environment =

This wiki page will go away when all the subsections
of the "Using the Software Development Environment"
section
have been completed.  Until then, the page will contain
a general description of what should go in this section
and a list of TBDs.

How to use Subversion and Trac (oriented toward devlopers,
not administrators).  ADE setup defined by Raytheon flowtag.
Include by reference.  All Java development takes place within the
Eclipse/ADE environment.

How to use the SDE software.  Step by step instructions for check
in, check out, merge, deploy.  Generally organized to support the
software development process section.

Perhaps incorporate here the How toWiki from the NCLADT wiki
(https://collaborate.nws.noaa.gov/trac/ncladt/wiki/How toWiki).
Some of it should be in the software development process
section.  Example: Create a wiki
page if you create an app (or new user-level function).  The wiki
has the potential to be a powerful communications tool if we
can define good policies early and stick to them.  Need to
learn some lessons from the NCLADT.  Note also that Trac provides a specific
mechanism for making inter-wiki links (InterWiki).

TBDs:
 *  Document templates
 *  How to initialize a ticket
 *  How to schedule ticket to a build
 *  How to assign ticket to developer
 *  How to attach documents to ticket
 *  How to add comments with ticket number to source code so that Subversion hooks interact properly w/ Trac to link tickets to specific code revision numbers.
 *  Needs thinking, discussion about how to set up the ticket categories, life cycles, roles, in Trac.  We really won't know for sure until we start doing it.



AWIPS II Software Developers' Handbook (AiiHb)
