= Software Development Environment =

The software development environment (SDE) is a set of tools to
minimize the burden imposed on developers and management by
the software development process.  In the context of this
document the SDE is the set of
tools (a software "stack") used by one or more software
development '''teams'''.  The AWIPS II development environment for
'''individual programmers''' is defined by the AWIPS Development
Environment (ADE) package delivered and documented by Raytheon
as part of the AWIPS Migration project.

On the server side, the SDE consists of:
 *  Subversion.  The source code management system.
 *  Trac.  The wiki and issue tracking system.
 *  Hudson.  The build management system.

Please see the section titled "References and Resources" (AiiHbRes)
for links and references to more information on those
server-side components.  The section titled
"Installing the Software Development Environment" (AiiHbDevEnvInst)
describes how to install them.

On the client side, the SDE consists of:
 *  Firefox.  Any other web browser should work.  The web browser serves as the client for the Subversion, Trac, and Hudson servers.
 *  ADE.  This is the AWIPS Development Environment, which is delivered with each AWIPS release by Raytheon.  It includes Eclipse.
 *  Svn.  This is the Subversion command line client.  The version of Eclipse included with the ADE has a built-in Subversion client (the Subclipse plugin), but users who want to have the full power of Subversion available will want to use svn.  Svn is well documented in the "Red Book."  (Please see the "References and Resources" section (AiiHbRes) for a link to that book.)



AWIPS II Software Developers' Handbook (AiiHb)

